README.md, before:

# Bake'n'Cook 🍞

A smart meal planning and recipe management application specialized for baking and cooking enthusiasts.

## Features
- 📝 **Recipe Management**: Import, create, and organize your favorite recipes.
- 🤖 **AI-Powered Import**: Automatically parse ingredients and steps from websites.
- 📅 **Smart Planner**: Schedule your baking with automatic timeline calculation.
- 🛒 **Shopping List**: Generate shopping lists from your meal plan.
- 🌍 **Multi-language**: Support for English and German.

## Updates
To update the application, run:
```bash
./scripts/update.sh
```
For detailed instructions, see [docs/UPDATES.md](docs/UPDATES.md).

## Documentation
- [**Setup Guide**](docs/SETUP.md): How to install and run the application.
- [**User Guide**](docs/USAGE.md): How to use the features.
- [**Admin Guide**](docs/ADMIN.md): Administration and system settings.
- [**Project Structure**](docs/STRUCTURE.md): Technical overview of the codebase.

## Quick Start
1.  Clone the repo.
2.  Set up `.env`.
3.  Run `docker-compose up -d`.
4.  Open `http://localhost:5173`.

See [docs/SETUP.md](docs/SETUP.md) for details.

Commit message:

docs: Refine setup documentation by distinguishing Docker from native installs and adding update/backup permission details.

README.md, after:

# Bake'n'Cook 🍞

A smart meal planning and recipe management application specialized for baking and cooking enthusiasts.

## Features
- 📝 **Recipe Management**: Import, create, and organize your favorite recipes.
- 🤖 **AI-Powered Import**: Automatically parse ingredients and steps from websites.
- 📅 **Smart Planner**: Schedule your baking with automatic timeline calculation.
- 🛒 **Shopping List**: Generate shopping lists from your meal plan.
- 🌍 **Multi-language**: Support for English and German.

## Installation

Bake'n'Cook can be installed using Docker (recommended for ease of use) or directly on a Debian/Ubuntu server.

-   🐳 **[Docker Setup Guide](docs/SETUP.md)**: Quickest way to get started.
-   🐧 **[Debian/Ubuntu Setup Guide](docs/DEBIAN_SETUP.md)**: For native server installations.

## Updates
To update the application, run the update script:
```bash
./scripts/update.sh
```
For detailed instructions, backups, and troubleshooting, see **[docs/UPDATES.md](docs/UPDATES.md)**.

## Documentation
- [**User Guide**](docs/USAGE.md): How to use the features.
- [**Admin Guide**](docs/ADMIN.md): Administration and system settings.
- [**Project Structure**](docs/STRUCTURE.md): Technical overview of the codebase.
